>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, APRIL 4: NEW
ARRESTS AND NEW THREATS,
FOLLOWING THAT TERROR ATTACK IN
KENYA.
McDONALD'S, WALMART AND TARGET
ARE ALL GIVING RAISES.
ARE WAGES FOR EVERYONE ELSE
ABOUT TO RISE, TOO?
THE FRENCH SAY NO TO ULTRA-
THIN MODELS IN A BID TO CURB
ANOREXIA.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, ON
THIS EASTER WEEKEND, ARE
CHRISTIAN PILGRIMS IN JERUSALEM,
RETRACING THE LAST HOURS OF
JESUS' LIFE, WALKING THE WRONG
WAY?
WHAT A NEW ARCHEOLOGICAL EXHIBIT
MIGHT REVEAL.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS OF
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WE BEGIN TONIGHT IN KENYA, WHERE
AUTHORITIES TODAY TOOK FIVE
SUSPECTS INTO CUSTODY FOR THEIR
ALLEGED ROLE IN THURSDAY'S
UNIVERSITY TERROR ATTACK.
AT LEAST 148 PEOPLE WERE KILLED.
AUTHORITIES SAID THREE OF THE
FIVE WERE CAPTURED AS THEY TRIED
TO ENTER NEIGHBORING SOMALIA.
THAT'S THE BASE OF AL-SHABAB,
THE ISLAMIST TERROR ORGANIZATION
ALIGNED WITH AL QAEDA, WHICH
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
ATTACK TARGETING CHRISTIAN
STUDENTS.
TODAY, IN A STATEMENT, THE GROUP
WARNED KENYANS THAT "NO AMOUNT
OF PRECAUTION WILL PREVENT
ANOTHER BLOODBATH FROM
OCCURRING."
OUR REPORT IS FROM I.T.V.'S
RICHARD PALLOT.
>> Reporter: FOR TWO DAYS, THIS
WOMAN HAS HELD OUT HOPE.
NO MORE.
LIKE SO MANY OTHERS THIS
MORNING, THE REALIZATION THAT
THEIR RELATIVES WERE VICTIMS IN
KENYA'S WORST TERRORIST ATTACK
IN ALMOST TWO DECADES.
THE STORIES OF SURVIVAL ARE
STILL EMERGING.
>> I WAS SCARED SO MUCH.
>> Reporter: THIS WOMAN HID IN A
CUPBOARD FOR 48 HOURS, SO SCARED
THAT SHE REFUSED TO BELIEVE THE
SIEGE WAS OVER.
WHILE THIS DEHYDRATED,
DISORIENTED STUDENT TELLS HOW HE
COVERED HIMSELF IN BLOOD TO
PRETEND HE WAS DEAD.
>> I AM THE ONLY MAN WHO
SURVIVED FROM ALL THE BOYS WHO
WERE TAKEN HOSTAGE.
I JUST SMEARED THE BLOOD OF MY
COLLEAGUES.
>> Reporter: FIVE OF THE
SUSPECTED GUNMEN ARE IN CUSTODY
AFTER TRYING TO FLEE TO
NEIGHBORING SOMALIA.
AL-SHABAAB, THE TERROR GROUP
BEHIND THE COLLEGE MASSACRE, SAY
THEY'LL WAGE A LONG, GRUESOME
WAR AGAINST KENYA'S FORCES, A
SOBERING REALITY FOR THE
COUNTRY'S PRESIDENT.
>> WE SHALL EMPLOY ALL MEANS AT
OUR DISPOSAL TO BRING THE
PERPETRATORS TO JUSTICE.
WE ARE ALSO IN ACTIVE PURSUIT OF
THE MASTERMIND OF THE ATTACK.
>> Reporter: AND SO, WITH MORE
ATTACKS LIKELY, THE 148 FAMILIES
THAT SUFFERED HERE, THEY WILL
NOT BE THE LAST.
RICHARD PALLOT, I.T.V. NEWS.
>> Sreenivasan: ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS HAVE DESTROYED MORE
PRICELESS ARTIFACTS, THIS TIME
IN HATRA, A UNESCO WORLD
HERITAGE SITE IN NORTHERN IRAQ
NOT FAR FROM TIKRIT, WHERE IRAQI
FORCES RECENTLY DECLARED VICTORY
OVER ISIS.
ISIS POSTED THIS VIDEO ONLINE
SHOWING SOME OF ITS FIGHTERS
TAKING SLEDGEHAMMERS TO AND
FIRING ASSAULT RIFLES AT ANCIENT
RELICS IN THE MORE THAN 2,000-
YEAR-OLD CITY.
IT WAS THE CAPITAL OF THE FIRST
ARAB KINGDOM.
ISIS SAYS THE RELICS PROMOTE
IDOLATRY.
THE HEAD OF UNESCO SAID TODAY
ISIS'S ACTIONS AMOUNT TO
"CULTURAL CLEANSING."
THERE ARE REPORTS OF NEW
MILITARY GAINS BY ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS IN NEIGHBORING SYRIA.
AN INTERNATIONAL MONITORING
GROUP SAY ISIS AND AL QAEDA'S
OFFICIAL SYRIAN WING, THE NUSRA
FRONT, MADE GAINS OVERNIGHT AND
NOW CONTROL ABOUT 90% OF A
PALESTINIAN REFUGEE CAMP ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF DAMASCUS, THE
NATION'S CAPITAL.
THERE ARE AN ESTIMATED 18,000
PEOPLE LIVING IN THE CAMP.
THEY ARE SAID TO BE SUFFERING
THROUGH SHORTAGES OF FOOD, WATER
AND MEDICATION.
A SERIES OF ANTI-ISLAM
DEMONSTRATIONS ACROSS AUSTRALIA
TODAY PROMPTED CLASHES WITH
OTHER PROTESTERS WHO DENOUNCED
THE GATHERINGS AS RACIST.
THE ANTI-ISLAM PROTESTS WERE
STAGED IN 16 CITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY INCLUDING MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
THEY WERE ORGANIZED BY A GROUP
CALLING ITSELF "RECLAIM
AUSTRALIA," WHICH SAYS THE
COUNTRY IS UNDER THREAT FROM
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS.
TELEVISION COVERAGE OF LAST
JANUARY'S TERROR ATTACK ON A
KOSHER JEWISH MARKET IN PARIS
HAS PROMPTED A LAWSUIT.
IT ALLEGES THAT LIVE REPORTS BY
BFMTV ENDANGERED THE LIVES OF
SHOPPERS WHO HAD HIDDEN IN A
BASEMENT FREEZER AFTER AN ISIS
SYMPATHIZER STORMED THE BUILDING
AND KILLED FOUR PEOPLE.
ACCORDING TO THE LAWSUIT, BFMTV
REVEALED WHERE THE PEOPLE WERE
HIDING EVEN THOUGH THE GUNMAN
REPORTEDLY WAS WATCHING
TELEVISION ACCOUNTS OF THE
EPISODE AS IT UNFOLDED.
OTHER FRENCH NEWS CHANNELS WERE
CRITICIZED FOR REVEALING DETAILS
ABOUT THE DEPLOYMENT OF SPECIAL
FORCES OUTSIDE THE SUPERMARKET.
A CALIFORNIA MAN, KEVIN
BOLLAERT, HAS BEEN SENTENCED TO
A LENGTHY PRISON TERM FOR
POSTING THOUSANDS OF SEXUALLY
EXPLICIT IMAGES OF PEOPLE
WITHOUT THEIR CONSENT ONLINE.
THE PICTURES, TYPICALLY PROVIDED
BY EX-HUSBANDS AND BOYFRIENDS,
WERE DISPLAYED ON WHAT WAS
WIDELY KNOWN AS A REVENGE PORN
SITE.
BOLLAERT THEN STARTED A SECOND
WEB SITE CHARGING PEOPLE UP TO
$350 TO HAVE THEIR PICTURES
REMOVED.
TEACHERS AND WIVES WERE AMONG
THE VICTIMS, AND ONE WOMAN
REPORTEDLY ATTEMPTED SUICIDE.
IN FEBRUARY, BOLLAERT WAS FOUND
GUILTY OF IDENTITY THEFT AND
EXTORTION.
HIS SENTENCE OF 18 YEARS WAS
HANDED DOWN YESTERDAY.
THE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE IS
REPORTEDLY ON THE VERGE OF
HIRING ITS FIRST FULL-TIME
FEMALE GAME OFFICIAL.
THIS, ACCORDING TO THE
"BALTIMORE SUN."
THE WOMAN, SARAH THOMAS, A
PHARMACEUTICAL SALES
REPRESENTATIVE AND MOTHER OF
THREE, BECAME THE FIRST WOMAN TO
OFFICIATE AN N.C.A.A. FOOTBALL
GAME IN 2007.
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL HAS NO
WOMEN UMPIRES.
THE NATIONAL BASKETBALL
ASSOCIATION HAS THREE WOMEN
REFEREES.
AND TODAY SAW A TOTAL LUNAR
ECLIPSE.
EARLY THIS MORNING, THE SUNLIGHT
FALLING ON THE MOON, SEEN IN
THIS TIME LAPSE VIDEO, WAS
SLOWLY BLOCKED BY THE EARTH.
THIS KIND OF ECLIPSE IS KNOWN AS
A "BLOOD MOON" BECAUSE OF THE
ORANGE GLOW THAT APPEARS AS THE
SUNS RAYS BEND AROUND THE EARTH
AND THROUGH ITS ATMOSPHERE AND
ARE CAST ONTO THE MOON.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE WAS A
BRIGHT SPOT IN YESTERDAY'S
OTHERWISE DISAPPOINTING JOBS
REPORT.
WAGES, STUCK FOR SO LONG, ARE
FINALLY STARTING TO GO UP.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON BY
ERIC MORATH OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL."
SO, IS THIS TRULY A BRIGHT SPOT
IN AN OTHERWISE PRETTY BLEAK
REPORT?
>> WELL, THE REPORT CERTAINLY
WAS BLEAK, AND WE'RE STARTING TO
SEE, THOUGH, THE FIRST SIGNS
POSSIBLY OF STRONGER WAGE
GROWTH.
WE STILL HAVE QUITE A BIT OF
WAYS TO GO BEFORE WE CAN DECLARE
IT'S A BREAKOUT, BUT THERE HAS
BEEN SOME OTHER NEWS AROUND
WAGES THAT IS ALSO BRIGHTENING
THE OUTLOOK.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'VE BEEN
SEEING THESE STORIES OF
COMPANIES LIKE WALMART OR
McDONALD'S ANNOUNCING PLANNED
WAGE INCREASES.
IS THAT LIKELY TO HAVE AN IMPACT
ON THE OVERALL ECONOMY,
CONSIDERING THE NUMBER OF LOW-
WAGE WORKERS THERE ARE?
>> YEAH, I THINK IT WILL HAVE AN
IMPACT IN POCKETS OF THE
ECONOMY.
KEEP IN MIND THAT ONE OF THE
FASTEST GROWING AREAS DURING
THIS RECOVERY HAS BEEN
RESTAURANT JOBS, AND NOT TOO FAR
BEHIND THAT HAS BEEN RETAILERS.
SO, A LOT OF FOLKS HAVE TAKEN UP
EMPLOYMENT IN THESE FIELDS, AND
SO NOW THAT WE MIGHT BE SEEING
SOME WAGE GROWTH BY THE LEADERS
IN THOSE AREAS, THAT COULD
TRANSLATE INTO BETTER CONSUMER
SPENDING.
BUT IT MIGHT NOT HAVE A HUGE
IMPACT ON THE OVERALL WAGE
GROWTH BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO KEEP
IN MIND THESE ARE LOW-WAGE JOBS,
OFTEN $8, $10, $12 AN HOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DOES THAT
COMPARE WITH WHAT THE COST OF
LIVING OR THE CONSUMER PRICE
INDEX IS THESE DAYS?
>> WELL, ONE GOOD NOTE: WAGES
HAVE BEEN GROWING ABOUT 2.2%
OVER THE PAST YEAR, ACCORDING TO
YESTERDAY'S JOBS REPORT.
AT THE SAME TIME, CONSUMER
PRICES, THANKS TO FALLING OIL,
HAS BEEN BARELY MOVING AHEAD AT
ALL.
SO, THESE WAGE INCREASES SHOULD
FEEL REAL TO CONSUMERS, SO IT IS
A HELP.
>> Sreenivasan: OKAY, AND THEN,
HOW DOES THIS FIT IN THIS LARGER
PICTURE?
YOU MENTIONED THE PRICE OF OIL.
WHEN THE PRICE OF OIL GOES DOWN,
PEOPLE FEEL LIKE THEY HAVE MORE
MONEY IN THEIR POCKETS.
IS THAT THE REASON THEY GO OUT
TO RESTAURANTS, AND THEN THAT'S
THE REASON THE RESTAURANTS HAVE
TO HIRE MORE WORKERS?
I MEAN, HOW DOES IT ALL CONNECT?
>> YEAH, THERE'S DEFINITELY A
CONNECTION THERE.
I MEAN, RESTAURANTS HAVE BEEN
ONE AREA, ONE OF THE FEW AREAS
WITHIN CONSUMER SPENDING THAT
WE'VE REALLY SEEN STRONG GROWTH
WITH THE FALL IN OIL PRICES.
IT HASN'T QUITE TRANSLATED TO
OTHER AREAS LIKE YOUR GENERAL
MERCHANDISE STORES YET.
SO, THAT'S THE CONNECTION,
THEN-- PEOPLE FEEL A LITTLE BIT
BETTER AND THEN MAYBE GO OUT AND
SPEND.
BUT THE CONSUMERS ARE STILL
CAUTIOUS.
WE ARE SEEING THE HIGHEST
SAVINGS RATES IN SEVERAL YEARS,
AND WE'VE SEEN, SINCE THE
HOLIDAY SEASON, NOT PARTICULARLY
ROBUST OVERALL CONSUMER
SPENDING.
SO, I THINK THERE'S STILL A
SENSE THAT, YOU KNOW, AFTER THE
DEEP RECESSION, PEOPLE JUST
AREN'T WILLING TO OPEN UP THEIR
WALLETS QUITE AS FAR.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THEN, HOW DO
THESE NUMBERS ABOUT WAGE
INCREASES CONNECT TO THIS
OVERALL JOB CREATION REPORT,
BECAUSE THIS IS ALL THE JOBS
THAT ARE CREATED, NOT
NECESSARILY JUST LOW-WAGE JOBS,
RIGHT?
>> OH, THAT'S RIGHT.
SO, WE HAD BEEN SEEING A QUITE
ROBUST JOB GROWTH BEFORE MARCH,
THE PREVIOUS 12 MONTHS.
WE'D SEEN THE STRONGEST JOB
CREATION ON A MONTHLY AVERAGE
SINCE THE 1990s.
SO, CERTAINLY, THAT WAS QUITE
STRONG.
WE HAD A STEP-BACK IN MARCH.
THAT COULD BE FOR A NUMBER OF
REASONS, INCLUDING, YOU KNOW, A
STRONGER DOLLAR REDUCING
EXPORTS.
AND THERE'S AN ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN
IN ASIA AND PARTS OF EUROPE, AND
THAT MIGHT JUST BE CAUSING
BUSINESSES TO BE A LITTLE BIT
CAUTIOUS.
THE TREND FOR JOBS IS STILL UP.
WE EXPECT TO SEE WAGES
ACCELERATE IF WE CONTINUE TO BE
ADDING JOBS AT THE PACE WE HAD
BEEN BEFORE LAST MONTH.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, ERIC
MORATH OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> SURE, ANY TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'VE PROBABLY
READ STORIES FOR YEARS NOW ABOUT
HOW YOUNG GIRLS ARE INFLUENCED
BY THE ADVERTISEMENTS THAT THEY
SEE FEATURING ULTRA-THIN
MODELS-- ADS, EXPERTS BELIEVE,
THAT MAY MAKE THEM MORE
SUSCEPTIBLE TO EATING DISORDERS
LIKE ANOREXIA.
NOW, THE FRENCH ARE TAKING NEW
STEPS TO FIX THE PROBLEM.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW VIA SKYPE FROM PARIS
BY ALISSA RUBIN OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES."
SHE HAS BEEN COVERING THE STORY.
SO, THEY'RE PROPOSING A LAW.
WHAT'S IN THE LAW?
>> WELL, THERE ARE A VARIETY OF
MEASURES.
THE ONE THAT'S PROBABLY GOTTEN
THE MOST ATTENTION IS A
REQUIREMENT THAT MODELS WOULD
HAVE TO PRESENT A DOCTOR'S
CERTIFICATE SAYING THAT THEY
WERE AT A HEALTHY ENOUGH WEIGHT
TO WORK.
AND ANYONE EMPLOYING MODELS WHO
WAS EMPLOYING PEOPLE WITHOUT
SUCH A CERTIFICATE WOULD BE
PENALIZED, BOTH FINANCIALLY AND
POTENTIALLY WITH SIX MONTHS IN
JAIL.
>> Sreenivasan: AND WHAT WOULD
BE CONSIDERED HEALTHY?
WHAT ARE SOME OF THE OTHER
PROVISIONS?
>> SOME OF THE OTHER PROVISIONS
ARE ACTUALLY QUITE INTERESTING.
ONE OF THEM IS... OUTLAWS
INTERNET SITES THAT ENCOURAGE
ANOREXIA, AND THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT'S NOT MUCH TALKED ABOUT BUT
THERE ARE SUCH SITES.
THERE ARE NOT A LOT OF THEM, I
DON'T THINK, BUT THEY ARE
CERTAINLY DISTURBING TO LOOK AT.
AND THEN, A THIRD PROVISION
WOULD ACTUALLY REQUIRE THAT ALL
PHOTOGRAPHS OF... WHICH SHOW
MODELS' BODIES, IF THEY HAD BEEN
RETOUCHED EITHER TO MAKE THE
FIGURE-- THE FRENCH WORD IS
SILHOUETTE-- LOOK HEAVIER OR
THINNER THAN IT REALLY IS, THE
PHOTO WOULD HAVE TO BE LABELED.
SO, IT'S THREE QUITE SIGNIFICANT
PROVISIONS, AND WE'LL SEE IF
THEY PASS THE FRENCH SENATE,
WHICH IS THE NEXT BODY THAT WILL
HAVE TO LOOK AT IT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
MODELING INDUSTRY OR THE FASHION
INDUSTRY HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THIS?
>> WELL, IT'S QUITE INTERESTING.
THE FASHION INDUSTRY, THE BIG
FASHION HOUSES-- OF WHICH, AS
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
THEM HERE-- HAVE BEEN PUBLICLY
VERY QUIET ABOUT IT.
BUT THE UNION OF MODELING
AGENCIES HAS SPOKEN UP, AND THEY
FEEL THE WAY THE LAW HAS BEEN
DRAFTED IS VERY UNFAIR AND
INACCURATE.
THE BASIS ON WHICH THE LAW IS...
BEEN DONE IS THE... WHAT'S
CALLED THE BODY MASS INDEX,
WHICH IS AN INTERNATIONALLY USED
INDEX.
AND THERE'S A WEIGHT RANGE FOR
NORMAL WEIGHT, FOR OVERWEIGHT,
FOR OBESITY AND FOR UNDERWEIGHT.
AND ALL MODELS WOULD HAVE TO BE
AT LEAST WITHIN THE NORMAL
WEIGHT, NOT THE UNDERWEIGHT
RANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: ANY DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THE FRENCH AND AMERICAN
SENSIBILITIES ABOUT THIS?
>> NO, I THINK, ACTUALLY, THE
SENSIBILITIES ARE FAIRLY
SIMILAR, BUT THE PHILOSOPHY OF
GOVERNMENT IS QUITE DIFFERENT.
THE FRENCH ARE QUITE WILLING TO
REGULATE VERY EXTENSIVELY AND IN
GREAT DETAIL MANY ASPECTS OF
LIFE AND... AND USE THE POWERS
OF GOVERNMENT TO DO THAT, AND
AMERICANS ARE MUCH MORE
RELUCTANT TO REGULATE.
I THINK, ON THIS, THEY'RE
WILLING TO BE A BIT MORE
PRESCRIPTIVE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND SO, WHAT DO
SAY THEY IS THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN THE IMAGES THAT A YOUNG
WOMAN SEES AND HER LIKELIHOOD TO
BE ANOREXIC, WHICH IS SOMETIMES
A PSYCHOLOGICAL DISORDER, RIGHT?
>> YES, IT'S VERY OFTEN, IF NOT
ALWAYS, A PSYCHOLOGICAL
DISORDER.
WELL, HERE, I THINK THIS IS
WHERE IT'S QUITE CONFUSING.
IT'S NOT CLEAR WHAT THE BASIS
WAS FOR... FOR TARGETING THE
FASHION INDUSTRY.
WHEN I AT LEAST SPOKE WITH
PSYCHIATRISTS ABOUT THIS, THEY
ALL SAY THAT THERE ARE SO MANY
FACTORS THAT GO INTO A YOUNG
WOMAN CHOOSING OR SLIPPING INTO
A STATE WHERE SHE... SHE STARVES
HERSELF.
AND SO, IT'S NOT REALLY CLEAR
THAT DOING THIS WILL HAVE A... A
VERY MEASURABLE EFFECT, BUT MORE
THAT IT CREATES SORT OF
DIFFERENT RESPECTED BODY IMAGES
OTHER THAN ONES THAT ARE... THAT
ARE OFTEN VERY SERIOUSLY THIN,
WHICH IS WHAT MANY OF THE
FASHION MODELS WHO ARE, OF
COURSE, VERY MUCH A PART OF THE
PARIS SCENE ARE AND HAVE TO BE
IN ORDER TO GET... TO GET WORK.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
ALISSA RUBIN OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW, TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
ON THIS EASTER WEEKEND, WE TAKE
YOU TO JERUSALEM, WHERE NEW
ARCHAEOLOGICAL FINDINGS ARE
SPURRING A RENEWED DEBATE ABOUT
THE FINAL HOURS OF JESUS' LIFE.
JUST WHERE WAS HE PUT ON TRIAL
AND PARADED BEFORE BEING
CRUCIFIED?
IT'S NOT JUST AN ACADEMIC
QUESTION.
MILLIONS OF CHRISTIAN PILGRIMS
FROM AROUND THE WORLD HAVE
RETRACED THE ROUTE OVER THE
YEARS KNOWN AS THE VIA DOLOROSA,
BUT SOME SAY THE LATEST FINDINGS
SUGGEST THEY'VE BEEN WALKING THE
WRONG WAY.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN FLETCHER EXPLAINS.
>> Reporter: FOR CENTURIES,
CHRISTIAN PILGRIMS HAVE COME TO
JERUSALEM TO RETRACE THE LAST
HOURS OF JESUS' LIFE, WALKING
THE TRADITIONAL STATIONS OF THE
CROSS ON THE VIA DOLOROSA, OR
WAY OF SUFFERING.
THE BIGGEST CROWDS COME ON GOOD
FRIDAY, BUT YOU'LL FIND PILGRIMS
HERE EVERY DAY OF THE YEAR.
THE HOODS ARE VISITING FROM
UPSTATE NEW YORK.
>> I JUST WANTED TO SEE WHERE
THE DIFFERENT STATIONS WERE AND
WHAT THEY REPRESENT.
I'VE ALWAYS HEARD ABOUT THE
STATIONS OF THE CROSS BUT NEVER
REALLY UNDERSTOOD IT.
>> I'M FOLLOWING THE STATIONS OF
THE CROSS FROM ONE THROUGH 14.
>> Reporter: AT THE FIFTH
STATION OF THE CROSS, WHERE
PILGRIMS LAY THEIR HANDS WHERE
THEY BELIEVE JESUS RESTED HIS
HAND, WE MET KEN COSTA FROM
INDIA.
>> VERY SPIRITUAL.
I FELT THAT I WAS TOUCHING
JESUS' HAND.
AND SINCE IT'S IMPRINTED HERE,
AS THIS IS THE FIFTH STATION
WHERE SIMON OF CYRENE HELPED
JESUS, SO MY BELIEF IS THAT THIS
WAS THE WAY.
>> Reporter: BUT WAS IT?
RECENTLY REVEALED DISCOVERIES ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE CITY--
REMNANTS OF AN ANCIENT PALACE
WHICH JUST MAY BE THE TRUE SITE
OF THE TRIAL OF JESUS-- IS
RENEWING DEBATE ABOUT THE TRUE
ROUTE OF THE VIA DOLOROSA.
THIS IS THE ROUTE OF THE CURRENT
VIA DOLOROSA, GOING FROM EAST TO
WEST, ENDING AT THE CHURCH OF
THE HOLY SEPULCHRE.
THAT'S THE WAY MILLIONS OF
CHRISTIAN PILGRIMS OVER THE
YEARS HAVE FOLLOWED IN THE
FOOTSTEPS OF CHRIST.
BUT THERE'S ARCHAEOLOGICAL
EVIDENCE THAT THEY'VE GOT IT ALL
WRONG, THAT THE REAL HISTORICAL
VIA DOLOROSA ENDS AT THE HOLY
CHURCH BUT THAT IT SHOULD START
MORE THAN A HALF MILE WAY ON THE
WEST SIDE OF THE CITY, NEAR THE
TOWER OF DAVID MUSEUM.
THIS IS ONE VERY SPECIAL STREET
NAME, ISN'T IT?
VIA DOLOROSA?
TO UNDERSTAND BETTER, WE VISITED
WITH FRANCISCAN FATHER
ALESSANDRO CONIGLIO.
CHRISTIANS, WHEN THEY COME TO
JERUSALEM, I IMAGINE EVERYONE--
EVERY SINGLE ONE-- WALKS THE VIA
DOLOROSA.
>> YES.
>> Reporter: WHY?
>> BECAUSE THIS IS THE PATH THAT
JESUS WALKED.
IT'S A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE.
>> Reporter: HE TOOK US TO THE
VERY START OF THE TRADITIONAL
VIA DOLOROSA.
EACH OF THE 14 STATIONS IS
MARKED WITH NUMBERS TO HELP
PILGRIMS FIND THEM.
SO, ACTUALLY, THE FIRST STATION
OF THE CROSS IS IN A MUSLIM
BOYS' SCHOOL.
>> YES.
>> Reporter: A SCHOOL NOW, BUT,
AT THE TIME OF JESUS, IT WAS THE
ANTONIA FORTRESS WHERE IT'S LONG
BEEN BELIEVED THE TRIAL OF JESUS
TOOK PLACE.
>> THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
PLACE FOR US BECAUSE HERE JESUS
STARTED HIS PASSION.
HERE HE WAS JUDGED BY PILATE.
>> Reporter: THE SECOND STATION,
ACROSS THE STREET IN TWO
FRANCISCAN SHRINES, IS WHERE
TRADITION HAS IT JESUS TAKES UP
THE CROSS AND IS FLOGGED BY
SOLDIERS.
STATION THREE: JESUS FALLS FOR
THE FIRST TIME.
STATION FOUR: JESUS MEETS HIS
MOTHER.
STATION FIVE: SIMON HELPS JESUS
CARRY THE CROSS.
THAT'S ALSO WHERE WE SEE
PILGRIMS TOUCHING THE WALL.
STATION SIX: VERONICA WIPES THE
FACE OF JESUS.
HE FALLS FOR THE SECOND TIME AT
STATION SEVEN AND COMFORTS THE
WOMEN OF JERUSALEM AT STATION
EIGHT.
NUMBER NINE: JESUS FALLS FOR THE
THIRD TIME AT THIS ROMAN PILLAR.
THE LAST STATIONS, TEN TO 14,
ARE INSIDE THE CHURCH OF THE
HOLY SEPULCHRE, BELIEVED TO BE
THE EXACT PLACE WHERE JESUS IS
CRUCIFIED, DIES AND IS BURIED.
THE SITE WAS IDENTIFIED BACK IN
THE FOURTH CENTURY BY HELENA,
MOTHER OF CONSTANTINE, THE FIRST
CHRISTIAN ROMAN EMPEROR.
PILGRIMS HAVE WORSHIPPED HERE
EVER SINCE.
BUT ON THE WESTERN SIDE OF THE
OLD CITY, AT THE TOWER OF DAVID
MUSEUM, WE MET ARCHAEOLOGIST
SHIMON GIBSON, WHO GAVE US A
LOOK AT THE EVIDENCE IN A BRAND
NEW EXHIBIT THAT CHALLENGES THE
EXISTING ROUTE OF THE VIA
DOLOROSA.
>> SO, THIS IS IT.
>> Reporter: THIS WAS ONCE A
ONE-STORY PRISON, LONG AGO
ABANDONED.
NO ONE THOUGHT VERY MUCH ABOUT
IT.
BUT THEN, ARCHAEOLOGISTS STARTED
DIGGING AND KEPT GOING,
UNCOVERING LAYERS OF 2,800 YEARS
OF HISTORY, INCLUDING WHAT COULD
BE THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE PALACE
OF HEROD THE GREAT.
>> NOW, THESE RECENT EXCAVATIONS
REALLY BROUGHT TO LIGHT FURTHER
PROOF OF THE EXISTENCE OF A
MONUMENTAL EDIFICE WHICH CAN BE
IDENTIFIED AS THE COMPOUND OF
HEROD THE GREAT AND SUBSEQUENTLY
THE PRAETORIUM WHERE PONTIUS
PILATE SAT.
>> Reporter: PILATE, THE ROMAN
GOVERNOR WHO SENTENCED JESUS TO
DEATH.
IF PILATE HELD THE TRIAL AT
HEROD'S PALACE, WHICH GIBSON AND
MANY OTHER HISTORIANS BELIEVE,
THEN THE AREA NEAR THE TOWER OF
DAVID MUSEUM IS WHERE THE VIA
DOLOROSA SHOULD START.
IN FACT, ORIGINALLY IN THE FIRST
MILLENNIUM, PILGRIMSDIDTHINK
THE VIA DOLOROSA WENT THIS WAY.
WHEN WE SAY WE HAVE FOUND
SOMETHING NEW TODAY, WE'RE
ACTUALLY GOING BACK TO THE OLD
ROUTE OF THE VIA DOLOROSA.
>> YES.
>> Reporter: SO, WHY IS THE VIA
DOLOROSA TODAY WHERE IT IS?
>> THE TRADITIONAL VIA DOLOROSA
WAS REALLY ESTABLISHED AT THE
TIME OF THE CRUSADERS.
THE CRUSADERS, IN 1099, INVADED
JERUSALEM.
THEY WERE ABLE THEN TO REARRANGE
THE FEATURES WITHIN THE CITY IN
ORDER TO FIT IN WITH THEIR IDEA
OF WHERE THE HOLY SITES SHOULD
BE.
HENCE, THEY DECIDED THAT THE
ANTONIA FORTRESS, THAT WOULD BE
THE STARTING POINT FOR THE VIA
DOLOROSA, AND, OF COURSE, THE
ENDPOINT HAD TO BE THE CHURCH OF
THE HOLY SEPULCHRE.
>> Reporter: THE THEORY THAT THE
TRADITIONAL VIA DOLOROSA MIGHT
GO THE WRONG WAY ISN'T NEW, BUT
THIS EXHIBIT IS.
JUST OPENED TO PUBLIC, IT'S GOT
PEOPLE TALKING.
LISTEN TO WHAT'S HAPPENING ON
THIS TOUR.
>> AND SO, IF WE CAN PROVE THAT
HEROD'S PALACE IS HERE, THEN WE
CAN PROVE THE VIA DOLOROSA, THE
HISTORICAL VIA DOLOROSA, SHOULD
START FROM SOMEWHERE AROUND
HERE.
>> HMM, THAT WILL CHANGE A FEW
THINGS.
>> THAT WILL CHANGE A FEW
THINGS!
>> I'M...
>> NOT IMPRESSED?
>> I DON'T LIKE YOUR WORDING.
WE HAVE TO BE VERY SENSITIVE
ABOUT SAYING WE CAN PROVE.
WE CAN'T PROVE.
WE CAN ASK THE QUESTION: MIGHT
THE TRIAL HAVE BEEN HERE EVEN
IF TRADITION SAYS IT WAS THERE?
>> Reporter: ARE YOU GETTING
SPECIFICALLY MORE GROUPS COMING
HERE BECAUSE OF THE STORY THAT
JESUS CHRIST'S TRIAL MAY HAVE
BEEN HERE?
>> ABSOLUTELY, EVERY DAY.
>> Reporter: TOWER OF DAVID
MUSEUM DIRECTOR EILAT LIEBER HAS
BIG PLANS FOR THE NEW EXHIBIT
AND HOPES IT WILL ATTRACT
HISTORY BUFFS AND PILGRIMS
ALIKE.
TODAY, THE MUSEUM GETS 300,000
VISITORS A YEAR.
>> WE WANT A MILLION VISITORS
EVERY YEAR.
>> Reporter: NO DOUBT THERE'S A
BUSINESS SIDE TO ALL THIS;
CHRISTIAN TOURISTS ACCOUNT FOR
MORE THAN HALF OF ISRAEL'S $11
BILLION TOURISM INDUSTRY AND THE
TRADITIONAL VIA DOLOROSA, WHICH
IS LINED WITH TOURIST SHOPS
GALORE, IS A TOP DESTINATION.
BUT FOR PILGRIMS LIKE KEN COSTA,
WALKING THE VIA DOLOROSA IS NOT
ABOUT MONEY NOR ABOUT HISTORY.
>> IT'S ONLY FAITH.
>> Reporter: IT'S ONLY FAITH?
>> YES, IT IS.
>> Reporter: FATHER CONIGLIO
AGREES; WALKING THE VIA DOLOROSA
IS AN ACT OF FAITH.
>> WE DON'T HAVE A TICKET FOR
THE ENTRANCE IN THESE TWO
SHRINES HERE, SO WE WILL NOT
LOSE ANYTHING IF THE PILGRIMS
WILL START FROM ANOTHER PLACE.
WE'RE JUST TRYING TO SAY THAT
TRADITIONALLY THE PILGRIMS
STARTED FROM HERE, AT LEAST IN
THE LAST THREE CENTURIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SEE PHOTOGRAPHS
OF HOLY WEEK OBSERVANCES FROM
AROUND THE WORLD.
VISIT US ONLINE AT
pbs.org/newshour.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO
"VIEWERS LIKE YOU," YOUR CHANCE
TO COMMENT ON OUR WORK.
LAST WEEK'S SEGMENT ABOUT THE
CONVERSATION PROJECT PROMPTED
OVERWHELMING RESPONSE IN SUPPORT
OF END-OF-LIFE DISCUSSIONS.
BONNIE LOFTON COMMENTED: "MY
DOCTOR AND I HAVE HAD THIS
DISCUSSION.
I AM GLAD THAT I LIVE IN OREGON.
WHEN THE TIME COMES THAT THE
BENEFITS DO NOT OUTWEIGH THE
SUFFERING, I WANT IT WELL KNOWN
BY MY FAMILY MY WISHES TO HOW I
AM ALLOWED TO STOP LIVING."
MICHELLE VIETOR SAID SIMPLY: "I
WANT THE ABILITY TO DECIDE WHEN
TO GO.
I DON'T SEE HOW THAT'S ANYONE
ELSE'S BUSINESS."
AND THERE WAS THIS FROM CANDID
ONE: "I'M A PRE-BOOMER WHO'S
ALSO RETIRED, WITH LOTS OF TIME
TO ALLOCATE TO INEVITABILITY.
THE PRIMARY MOTIVATION THAT'S
IMPLIED IN THIS SEGMENT'S EXPOSÉ
IS THAT WE MAKE LIVING EASIER
FOR ALL BY NOT KEEPING DEATH AS
AN UNMENTIONABLE."
THERE WERE SOME WHO TOLD US
ABOUT THEIR OWN EXPERIENCES
GUIDING END-OF-LIFE
CONVERSATIONS, LIKE BRENDA
ADCOCK: "SPEAKING AS SOMEONE WHO
WAS A CHURCH PASTOR FOR 35
YEARS, I CAN TELL YOU I WISH
MORE PEOPLE WERE WILLING TO HAVE
THIS CONVERSATION."
AND JANA L. JOHNSEN: "AS A
HOSPITAL/HOSPICE CHAPLAIN, I
INITIATED OR FACILITATED THESE
INTERACTIONS FOR YEARS.
IT'S FINALLY BEING ABLE TO TALK
OPENLY ABOUT THE ELEPHANT IN THE
ROOM.
AND IT'S NOT MORBID, BUT LIFE-
GIVING, TO BE ABLE TO SHARE
THESE INTIMATE CONVERSATIONS."
AND BEVERLY BERG: "WHEN I WORKED
AT THE V.A., I DEALT WITH DYING
AND DEATH ON A FAIRLY REGULAR
BASIS.
SOME JUST NEEDED SOMEONE TO LET
THEM KNOW IT WAS OKAY TO DIE IF
THIS WAS WHAT THEY WANTED, THAT
THEY DIDN'T HAVE TO FIGHT
ANYMORE JUST TO MAKE EVERYONE
AROUND THEM HAPPY."
AND FINALLY, NOUBAR GEE OFFERED
THIS ADVICE: "THINK ABOUT IT,
TALK ABOUT IT, BUT DO NOT BE
PRE-OCCUPIED BY IT."
AS ALWAYS, WE WELCOME YOUR
COMMENTS.
VISIT US AT pbs.org/newshour, ON
OUR FACEBOOK PAGE, OR TWEET US
@NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
FIDEL CASTRO HAS BEEN SEEN IN
PUBLIC FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 15
MONTHS.
CUBA'S OFFICIAL WEB SITE
PUBLISHED PICTURES OF THE 88-
YEAR-OLD GREETING VISITORS
EARLIER THIS WEEK.
SAN FRANCISCO'S CHIEF OF POLICE
SAID HE IS PUSHING FOR THE
FIRING OF SEVEN OFFICERS WHO
SENT WHAT HE CALLED "DESPICABLE
TEXTS" DENIGRATING AFRICAN
AMERICANS, MEXICANS, FILIPINOS
AND GAYS.
JOIN US ON-AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
THE NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY BROWN
SITS DOWN WITH "MAD MEN" STAR
ELIZABETH MOSS.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.